For each of you watching this video, you
are the main character of your life.
Every single day, you go past hundreds
or perhaps thousands of other
individuals, but you don't really
communicate with these people. They're
sort of like extras in your life. You
may have a few conversations with a
couple individuals. They're sort of like
supporting actors or maybe even
recurring characters in your feature
film. And then you go home to your
family or you see your closest friends
and these are sort of like your
co-stars. But take a step back and think
about all of those hundreds or thousands
of people you passed by earlier that day
and realize that each of them has a life
as complex and vivid as your own. And
they're not an extra in their own life.
They are the main character of their
story. And what's especially profound is
the fact that you,
even though you're the main character,
may only be an extra in their story.
There's a word for this realization.
The word is sder. John Kanig is the
author of the dictionary of obscure
sorrows. And this is a project that is
full of neologism, which means creating
new words that fill gaps of things that
we as humans experience and we feel and
we understand concepts, but perhaps
there isn't language that exists to
articulate those types of particular
things. In interviews, John has talked
about the fact that a word like love can
mean so many different variations of
what that word actually means. And it's
his goal to pinpoint and come up with
specific terms that truly describe those
things that we feel. He came up with the
word saun in 2012. And this is a term I
only just recently learned of, but I've
been fascinated with it. It was an aha
moment for me. It's one of the most
powerful feelings I've had toward a word
because perhaps yourself, you've also
had this feeling of briefly
understanding the fact that everyone has
their focus and their world and their
priorities.
But I think the feeling or the
experience of s can actually help us
become better communicators. In today's
video, I'm going to give you four
specific ways that Saun can help make
you a more impactful communicator. And
before I get to those, I want to say
that I have linked to two videos below.
The first is the dictionary of obscure
soros video definition of s, which is so
well done and visually beautiful to talk
about this definition. So check that one
out and then also to John Kanig's TED
talk where he explains why it is that he
took on this project to try to find
these words to fill the gaps in
language. So how can Sa make you a more
impactful communicator? Well, let's
start off with the first example which
is public speaking. And I believe that
when you understand Sa, you are less
focused as a presenter on trying to
impress the audience and more focused on
trying to connect with them and allow
your message to fit into their reality.
There's a few ways you can do this. The
first is through audience participation.
So rather than you speaking at an
audience for your full presentation, you
can ask questions or invite
participation almost setting it up like
a workshop style where you have
individuals from the audience sharing
their stories and you're more of a
facilitator of this type of
conversation. You can also have
interactive polls and there's various
apps and programs out there where the
audience can use their phones to answer
questions in real time and you can
project the results behind you. So when
you ask a question of the audience,
they're seeing what everyone's opinion
is or their answers to whatever it is
that you're asking. But if these things
aren't possible, if your speech isn't
really suitable for asking questions of
the audience or inviting participation,
at the bare minimum, I really encourage
you to do deep research on the audience
you're speaking to to understand
what it is that perhaps is their
business or their community group or
their background or whatever type of
audience it is. Ensure that your message
is resonating to them and their story
because as soon as you start to use
verbiage or language that shows you
don't understand their story, that is
when an audience will tune you out. A
final way you can do this is finding
individual stories within the audience
if you have a prepared speech and using
them as examples, especially if they are
known to the greater group. Again,
that's showcasing the individuals and
showing that there are many different
people whose stories matter in this
audience and you are sharing the
spotlight with those individuals. The
second way Sonder can make you a better
communicator is through one- on-one
conversations.
Because when you understand Sonder, you
realize that everyone you speak to is
the main character in their own story
and that their passions are incredibly
important to them. And this leads to
curiosity. Whether you're talking to a
Fortune 500 CEO or to a janitor, it
doesn't matter. Everyone has their own
story. And this will prompt you to ask
more questions. There's this concept of
seek to understand, not to be
understood, or be interested, not
interesting. And this is important in
one-on-one conversations because most
people's default is to just talk about
their own experiences
and to not engage that curiosity and
make the conversation about the other
person. But again, understanding s you
realize that everyone likes to talk
about their own experience. So if you
can share that with somebody else and
and show a genuine interest in those
things that they're passionate about,
that's going to be so refreshing for
those individuals. And there's research
that backs this as well. In 2017,
Harvard did a research study to try to
understand what makes people the most
liked in one-on-one conversations. And
what this research found was that those
who ask more questions were consistently
rated as the best conversationalists.
And this lends itself to this concept of
s of tapping into that curiosity. Ask
people about their dreams, their goals,
their relationships. They'll be so
excited to tell you about it. Sonder can
make you a better leader because when
you understand this concept, employees
are no longer serving a single purpose
in their role and their job
requirements. They are individuals with
dreams and ambitions. And when you can
understand those things and help them
connect the dots, they will be more
inspired to work hard at the company
because they'll feel as though you're
helping to fulfill their purpose and
ultimately what it is they hope to
achieve in life. And on the flip side,
if you're delivering constructive
criticism or feedback, Saun reminds you
that these people may be dealing with
battles and personal situations that
aren't clear right from the surface. And
by having that deep understanding, you
will maybe approach these situations in
a better way, which will help that
employee manager relationship. Finally,
Sonder can help you be a more impactful
communicator on social media. Many
people use social media to post vanity
content talking about how great their
lives are. And the problem with this is
it's not really connecting. It's more
trying to impress the audience. But
understanding Sonder prompts us to try
to connect on a deeper level. And this
is really powerful and it's unique
content. As an example, if you're a
realtor, rather than saying, "Check out
my new listing," you can post verbiage
that is, "Imagine raising your kids in
this home."
All of a sudden, now it's not about you,
the real estate agent. It's about your
audience. It's about those potential
clients. You're tapping into their
imagination, to their dreams, to their
goals. And that's going to help one be
more interesting content, but create
more engaging conversations on social
media and probably lead to more views
because the algorithms like when people
are interacting with content and they
are more likely to do so when you're
making it about them. Essentially, SE
teaches us that the spotlight isn't just
on us, it's on everybody in the room.
And the sooner we can realize that,
the sooner we can become more impactful
communicators. I hope you enjoyed this
video diving into the concept of s. If
you did, check out this interview that's
popping up on your screen. I spoke with
Sean Kungo who's a professional keynote
speaker and he talked about this very
concept of how to connect with your
audience, how to do your research to
ensure that your next presentation is
very effective. If